# Publishing a Project

The following page will outline how to publish your project to the data platform.

## Committing Changes

The `g3t commit` command saves your changes to the local repository. Here's a brief explanation of what happens when you use g3t commit:

- Like git, this command bundles the staged files into a single set of changes.
  - The `-m` flag provides a commit message detailing the changes 
  - If the commit is successful, you will see a summary of the changes logged
- As a reminder, the files committed to git are the FHIR metadata in `META/` and the file metadata entries in `MANIFEST/`, not the data files themselves.
- See `g3t commit --help` for more info

## Pushing Changes

### How to Push Changes

The `g3t push` command uploads your changes to the data platform.
Here's a brief explanation of what happens when you use `g3t push`:

1. Checks that all files are committed before pushing
2. Checks that the FHIR metadata in `META/` is valid
3. Indexes the data files using the file metadata in the `MANIFEST/` directory
4. Uploads the FHIR metadata to our databases
5. Once the job is complete:
    * Changes are available on the platform
    * Changes are available for other users to download
    * Job logs are available in the logs directory

### Updating Files

When pushing data, `g3t` checks the manifest (`MANIFEST/` directory) to see if there are any new files to index. If no new files have been added, then the push will not go through. To update the metadata for a file that has already been pushed or update the FHIR metadata, use the `--overwrite` flag:

```console
$ g3t push --overwrite
```

### Logging

Make sure to check the logs generated by the command.

* If a job is successful, you will get a green success message.
* If a job fails, you will get a red error message: look for more information in the specified logs directory.
* The logs directory stores rolling logs, where each line is a JSON representing a single submission attempt.